README.md, before:

# webcal-combiner

App to read a bunch of webcals and combine them into a single webcal that is served from a Flask endpoint. My use case was wanting a single calendar for my son's multiple concurrent basketball teams. This allows all the calendars to be combined into one that can be subscribed to by e.g. Google Calendar, iCal, etc., but still add a prefix to each event so it's obvious which team it's for. Now multiple people can all subscribe to a single calendar once, and the calendars that supply the events can be changed or updated at any time, and the combined calendar never needs to be touched - it will automatically update.

## Usage

1. Copy `config.json.example` to `config.json`  
:warning: If the calendar starts with `webcal://` you will need to change it to `https://`
1. Edit `config.json` to add a `name` and `url` for each webcal
1. Run service: `docker-compose up -d --build`
1. Test by going to http://localhost:8080/calendar

You should see the combined calendar output starting with `BEGIN:VCALENDAR` with all the events from each calendar, prefixed with the expected `name`. Host this on a public URL and you can subscribe to it from Google Calendar, etc:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1694586/233532371-a316e691-634b-4850-9a91-3b6f14b03ef6.png" width="500">

You can check that the output is valid here: https://icalendar.org/validator.html

## NOTES

1. Every time the URL is polled, the calendars are re-downloaded and combined and served out, there is no caching currently, which is not needed because 👇
1. Google Calendar does not poll frequently, seems to be every ~12 hours or so, which is annoying when there's a change and you want it to show up

## Running without docker

### Development

```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
FLASK_ENV=development FLASK_APP=app.py flask run --host 0.0.0.0
```

### Production

```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
gunicorn -w 4 -b 0.0.0.0:5000 app:app
```

---

This code was originally forked from: <https://github.com/jessejoe/webcal-combiner> which is licensed MIT.
I also switched to use `icalendar` instead of `ics` after running into bugs in `ics` and seeing how to use `icalendar` in https://github.com/LukasForst/camerge which is also MIT.

Commit message:

migrate to rust to save memory with AI

README.md, after:

# webcal-combiner

> ⚠️ **AI-Generated Code Disclaimer**
>
> The Rust implementation of this application was generated by Claude (Anthropic AI). While the code has been tested for basic functionality, **it should be deployed to production environments with caution and thorough testing**.
>
> This migration from Python to Rust was specifically motivated by the need to run this service on highly memory-constrained servers, where the Python version's memory footprint was problematic.

**Rust-powered** app to read multiple webcals and combine them into a single webcal served via HTTP. My use case was wanting a single calendar for my son's multiple concurrent basketball teams. This allows all the calendars to be combined into one that can be subscribed to by e.g. Google Calendar, iCal, etc., but still add a prefix to each event so it's obvious which team it's for. Now multiple people can all subscribe to a single calendar once, and the calendars that supply the events can be changed or updated at any time, and the combined calendar never needs to be touched - it will automatically update.

> **Note**: This application was recently migrated from Python to Rust for significantly improved memory efficiency (~85-90% reduction). See [MIGRATION.md](MIGRATION.md) for details.

## Usage

1. Copy `config.json.example` to `config.json`  
:warning: If the calendar starts with `webcal://` you will need to change it to `https://`
1. Edit `config.json` to add a `name` and `url` for each webcal
1. Run service: `docker-compose up -d --build`
1. Test by going to http://localhost:8080/calendar

You should see the combined calendar output starting with `BEGIN:VCALENDAR` with all the events from each calendar, prefixed with the expected `name`. Host this on a public URL and you can subscribe to it from Google Calendar, etc:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1694586/233532371-a316e691-634b-4850-9a91-3b6f14b03ef6.png" width="500">

You can check that the output is valid here: https://icalendar.org/validator.html

## New Features (Rust Version)

- **Optional Caching**: Set `ENABLE_CACHE=true` to enable 5-minute TTL caching
- **Secure Key Management**: Use `WEBCAL_KEY` environment variable instead of config.json
- **Parallel Fetching**: All calendars fetched concurrently for better performance
- **Better Logging**: Control verbosity with `RUST_LOG` (trace, debug, info, warn, error)

## NOTES

1. By default, calendars are re-downloaded on every request (no caching). Enable with `ENABLE_CACHE=true` if desired.
1. Google Calendar does not poll frequently, seems to be every ~12 hours or so, which is annoying when there's a change and you want it to show up

## Running without Docker

### Prerequisites
Install Rust: https://rustup.rs/

### Development
```bash
cargo run
```

### Production
```bash
cargo build --release
./target/release/webcal-combiner
```

---

This code was originally forked from: <https://github.com/jessejoe/webcal-combiner> which is licensed MIT.
I also switched to use `icalendar` instead of `ics` after running into bugs in `ics` and seeing how to use `icalendar` in https://github.com/LukasForst/camerge which is also MIT.
